March Madness Machine Learning Project

	For my capstone project, I plan to use machine learning algorithms to attempt to predict the results of the NCAA Tournament for basketball
often referred to as the March Madness tournament.  Since the 2016 tournament is will be over in two days, I plan to use data from the 2011-2015 
tournaments as well as the results of the 2011-2016 regular seasons to train my machine learning.  I will use the 2016 tournament results as my
final test for the accuracy of my classifiers.  Throughout this process I also hope to be able to produce the best features for predicting an upset.

	I believe that there is a large audience who interested in this type of data.  One such client could be SportsCenter on ESPN who devotes a
large portion of their broadcasting time in February and March to "bracketology", or the study of the NCAA tournament.  Another interested party
could be anyone who gambles on sports.  This tournament is one of the most betted upon sports events in the United States.  The main things that 
these two clients can do with my data is to fill out their brackets more effectively.  Every year bracket competitions are held at both a national
and local level that result in cash prizes.  SportsCenter in particular has one of the largest bracket challenges in the nation.  I hope to present
new features that both of these clients can use to predict the outcomes of these games that they may have not thought of before.

	The data I will use can be found at https://www.kaggle.com/c/march-machine-learning-mania-2016/data as well as 
https://www.kaggle.com/c/march-machine-learning-mania-2015/data.  These two datasets are available for download from the kaggle website.  They contain
information on the past 6 regular seasons and 5 most recent tournaments including many standard basketball stastistics such as fields attempted and 
made.  I also plan to use the data contained at http://www.masseyratings.com/cb/compare.htm.  This website has current and historical data about several
ranking systems and the ranks for each of the NCAA tournament elegible teams.  The data is available in easily downloadable csv files.

	My approach to this problem will first involve doing some prelimanry analysis using the stastistics taught in the sliderule course.  I hope that 
by doing this I may be able to find some features that are indicative of a win.  I also plan to assemble my own small data set which will include 
geographical data on the games, such as distances traveled and time zones traversed.  I believe that these may factor into who is more likely to win.  I
plan to use supervised learning in my approach.  I can classify any game as a win or loss for the higher seeded team.  This would make my negative 
result represent an upset where the lower seed (higher number) defeats the higher seed (lower number).  I plan to take advantage of all the tools offered
in the sklearn package on python.  I believe I can use principle component analysis to help reduce the dimensionality of my data.  I may aslo try to 
develop a model that uses regression that can give me a probabilty of each team winning.  The original kaggle competition includes a metric for evaluating 
my results that I can compare to the rest of the community that penalizes more harshly for being confident and wrong.  I think this will be interesting as it
will allow me to use supervised learning to create my classifiers and the regressions required to create the continuous
probabilties.  

	My final deliverables will be a paper describing my methods as well as the code that I used to generate my results.  I will also produce a 
power point or a slide deck to present my data visualizations.
